README.md, before:

![Trilinos](http://trilinos.sandia.gov/common/logo_trilinos_moon.png)

[Website](http://trilinos.org/) |
[Documentation](http://trilinos.org/about/documentation/) |
[Mailing List](https://trilinos.org/mailman/listinfo/trilinos-users) |
[Packages](http://trilinos.org/packages/)

[![Stories in Ready](https://badge.waffle.io/trilinos/Trilinos.png?label=ready&title=Ready)](https://waffle.io/trilinos/Trilinos)
[![Coverity Scan
Build](https://scan.coverity.com/projects/1680/badge.svg)](https://scan.coverity.com/projects/1680)

The Trilinos Project is an effort to develop algorithms and enabling
technologies within an object-oriented software framework for the solution of
large-scale, complex multi-physics engineering and scientific problems. A
unique design feature of Trilinos is its focus on packages.


### Documentation

- [Getting Started with Trilinos](https://trilinos.org/getting-started/) 

- [General Documentation](https://trilinos.org/about/documentation/)

- For help with a particular package, see the website and accompanying
  documentation for that package. Links to these can be found down the
  right side of any page on the website and at [the package website](http://trilinos.org/packages/).

### License

Trilinos is licensed on a per-package basis. Most packages are now under a BSD
license, some are published under the (L)GPL. Details can be taken from the
documentation of each package.

Commit message:

Add links to INSTALL.rst and build reference guide (Trilinos #361)
Hopefully now users can find the key install instructions and find things like how
to turn on ETI (Trilinos #361).

README.md, after:

![Trilinos](http://trilinos.sandia.gov/common/logo_trilinos_moon.png)

[Website](http://trilinos.org/) |
[Documentation](http://trilinos.org/about/documentation/) |
[Mailing List](https://trilinos.org/mailman/listinfo/trilinos-users) |
[Packages](http://trilinos.org/packages/)

[![Stories in Ready](https://badge.waffle.io/trilinos/Trilinos.png?label=ready&title=Ready)](https://waffle.io/trilinos/Trilinos)
[![Coverity Scan
Build](https://scan.coverity.com/projects/1680/badge.svg)](https://scan.coverity.com/projects/1680)

The Trilinos Project is an effort to develop algorithms and enabling
technologies within an object-oriented software framework for the solution of
large-scale, complex multi-physics engineering and scientific problems. A
unique design feature of Trilinos is its focus on packages.


### Documentation

- [Getting Started with Trilinos](https://trilinos.org/getting-started/) 

- [General Documentation](https://trilinos.org/about/documentation/)

- [Quick configure, build and install hints for Trilinos](https://github.com/trilinos/Trilinos/blob/master/INSTALL.rst)

- [Trilinos Configure, Build, Test, and Install Reference Guide](https://trilinos.org/docs/files/TrilinosBuildReference.html)

- For help with a particular package, see the website and accompanying
  documentation for that package. Links to these can be found down the
  right side of any page on the website and at [the package website](http://trilinos.org/packages/).

### License

Trilinos is licensed on a per-package basis. Most packages are now under a BSD
license, some are published under the (L)GPL. Details can be taken from the
documentation of each package.
